This is HYPH-UTF8 package which contains:

- hyphenation patterns hyph-foo.tex, semi-manually converted into UTF-8
  from different sources by different authors
- pattern loaders loadhyph-foo.tex that recognise the engine
  and load pattern accordingly
- converters from UTF-8 into EC/T1, QX, part of ISO Latin 3, T2A & LMC
- some scripts to assist with auto-generating the files

Modificatios were needed in order to support native UTF-8 engines,
but functionality (hopefully) didn't change in any way, at least not intentionally.
The patterns themselves are no longer stand-alone; at least for 8-bit engines
you need to use loadhyph-foo.tex (which will load the patterns) instead.

Modifications were done by Jonathan Kew, Mojca Miklavec & Arthur Reutenauer
with help & support from:

- Karl Berry, who gave us free hands and all resources
- Taco Hoekwater, with useful macros
- Hans Hagen, who did the unicodifisation of patterns already long before
              and helped with testing, suggestions and bug reports
- Norbert Preining, who tested & integrated patterns into TeX Live

However, the "copyright/copyleft" owner of patterns remains the original author.

The original patterns should eventually become obsolete,
and the author of the original file should preferraby modify
these files instead (feel free to remove credits added by TUG from those files).

If you want to change the patterns, rather than uploading directly to CTAN,
we would be grateful if you could send it to us (http://tug.org/tex-hyphen)
or ask for credentials for SVN repository and commit it yourself;
we will then upload the whole "package" to CTAN.

Before a new "pattern-revolution" starts,
please try to follow some guidelines if possible:

- \lccode is *forbidden*, and I really mean it
- all the patterns should be in UTF-8
- the only "allowed" TeX commands in patterns are: \patterns, \hyphenation,
  and if you really cannot do without, also \input and \message
- in particular, please no \catcode or \lccode changes,
  they belong to loadhyph-foo.tex,
  and no \lefthyphenmin and \righthyphenmin,
  they have no influence here and belong elsewhere
- \begingroup and/or \endinput is not needed
- feel free to do whatever you want inside comments

We know that TeX is extremely powerful, but give a stupid parser
at least a chance to read your patterns.

For more information see

   http://tug.org/tex-hyphen


Copyright 2008-2012 by TUG

The licence for hyph-foo.tex: Respect licences of original authors.
The licence for the rest: Use common sense when modifying and coordinate your work.

Hyphenation patterns are essential to TeX;
whatever changes you make to these files -
make sure to coordinate your work with everyone involved.
(TeX Live, MikTeX, CTAN, patter authors, mailing list, ...)

People come and go, TeX evolves. We are aware of that.
If we disapear one day and there is a need to change files,
do whatever needs to be done to make TeX behave in a proper
(backward compatible) way. And keep things clean & consistent.

Things that might change in near future:
- support for multiple versions of patterns
- support for runtime loading of patterns
- support for preferred hyphenation points and discretionaries (ck -> k-k)
